# Fig captions

## Main text

*Fig 1 (hypotheses): Climate change may alter growing season length (GSL) affecting growth through diverse pathways.* We review hypotheses for these pathways showing the number of papers (from a review of papers studying growth $\times$ growing season length) that mentioned each hypothesis. For each graph, the peak (diamond), growth onset (start), and AUC change (shade) is highlighted for the growth curves before (blue) and after (red) climate change. The right side columns highlight the number of papers studying each mechanism (left) and the expected growth response for each hypothesis (right). We group hypotheses as focused on mechanisms moderated by the environment (`external') versus those focused on internal physiological constraints, which span both source (photosynthesis-limited) and sink limitation, and could act together. For more details, see Supplement.

*Fig 2 (heatmaps): Growth $\times$ growing season length relationships across studies and methods show no consistency in which methods do or do not find a positive relationship.* Left, frequency of phenological metrics and growth metrics used across the reviewed studies. Right, Distribution of found responses across these approaches. The number of papers within each combination is displayed, with shade emphasizing this value. Studies testing relationships potentially related to growth $\times$ growing season length (e.g. spring temperatures relation to growth) but never directly growth $\times$ growing season length were classified as `not tested'. See Supplement for review details. 

*Fig 3 (moraconcept): Understanding how longer growing seasons affect growth requires teasing out effects of longer seasons versus warmer seasons.* Here we show two examples of this complexity. a) A general net photosynthesis response curve (top panel) with a non-linear response to temperature \citep[blue curve, adapted from meta-analysis of][]{rezende2019thermal}, constrasts with the commonly used linear response (red). This non-linearity means that increases in lower temperatures---such as those in the spring when much of growing season extensions may happen---have lower absolute increases in photosynthesis compared to increases in later-season (e.g. summer) warmer temperatures, while a linear response assumes a constant scale of effect across low to high temperatures (bottom). b) Conceptual growth responses to temperature for two different species with different growth rate responses to temperature (top, inset), which impacts their growth across the season, leading to small absolute differences in accumulated growth at a conceptual high elevation site (top) versus larger differences in accumulated growth low elevation site (bottom). Testing how growth varies across larger spatial gradients of growing season length, as we conceptualize here (b) could help establish a baseline expectation of the scale of temporal---especially inter-annual variation---and force a greater reckoning with drivers that shift alongside growing season length. 

*Fig 4 (phylomodel): A trait-based phylogenetic model can naturally organize species (and, not shown, populations) responses to predict how they respond to longer seasons.* This approach estimates a universal model that is then shaped by species evolutionary history (shown at left via a phylogenetic tree) and traits to produce the divergent responses observed across species today. We argue this framework can organize and guide experiments that separate out changes in temperature from changes in growing season length (\degree C and GSL in see middle panels) to better integrate observational data and identify different responses by species that can help forecast (see `Building a new framework for growth $\times$ season length' section for more details). It also can be useful for global forecasts. For example, species-level estimates combined with data on species abundance across forests \citep[e.g.][]{FIA,fischer2019swiss} could predict larger-scale metrics, such as satellite observations of phenology and productivity. Here, we show how this approach can identify one clade (top) with a common response to longer seasons that also shares a suite of similar traits, and can identify a unique response by one species in a clade where that species also has a unique trait compared to other species with the same common ancestor (lower clade), while handling uneven sampling and missing data (the dashed red lines represent that the model will predict a response for each species).


## Supp

*Fig S1 (gxelev): Growth $\times$ elevation relationships from the literature.* Simple linear regression fits with 89\% confidence intervals have been added to each dataset. Note that \cite{oleksyn1998growth} measured growth (mm) as diameter at breast height increments, while other studies \citep{wang2017climatic,zhou2022altitudinal} measured growth (mm) as ring width. See `Growth $\times$ elevation relationships' section for more methods details.

*Fig S2 (heatmapssupp): External and internal drivers are ferquently but inconsistently studied in the literature.* Review of the prevalence of external (left) and internal (right) drivers mentioned in studies from our literature review, grouped by the general methods used. Many studies tested related hypotheses by measuring different drivers (e.g., latitude or elevation), so we combined similar external and internal factors for clearer comparisons.

*Fig S3 (sppfinds): Relationship between growth and growing season length were generally inconsistent across and within species.* Species are shown on the phylogenetic tree from \cite{smith2018constructing}. `Yes' indicates a study found a positive growth $\times$ growing season length relationship, while a `no' means they did not. A number of studies tested relationships possibly related to growth $\times$ growing season length (e.g., spring temperatures relation to growth) but never directly tested growth $\times$ growing season length, which are indicated by `not tested.' We do not show studies which reported species identity only to the genus level.

*Fig S4 (itrdbxpep): Data overlap between the two major databases of growth (International Tree Ring Data Bank, ITRDB, orange) and plant phenology (Pan European Phenology Project, PEP725, blue).* Both databases are compared in terms of their spatial distributions (a), temporal overlaps (b), coverage of environmental conditions in climate space (c) and taxonomical representation (d). Note that the number of tree ring chronologies in (b) are composed by multiple trees per site, typically 10-20. Climatic data from Worldclim database ver. 2.1 at 2.5\degree grid resolution. PEP725 records in d) show the largest records for any given phenophase per species.